Welcome back to digital forensic concepts.
We're talking about network basics,
in this course and in this module,
we're going to talk about the OSI model.
OSI stands for Open System
Interconnection.And in this slide,
we can see the layers,
the protocols and the unit exchange.
The layers from top to bottom, so
from layer 7 down the layer 1.
Layer 7, we have the application layer,
layer 6,
we have a presentation layer,
layer 5 would be the session layer,
layer 4 would be the transport layer,
layer 3 would be the network layer,
layer 2 would be the data link layer,
and layer 1 the physical layer.
And this diagram shows each layer,
each protocol,
and then it shows the unit exchange.
You look at the physical layer,
you can see the user unit exchange is bit.
Whereas if you look at the network layer,
you can see the unit exchange is packet.
So different units of exchange
happened at different layers.
We're going to start and
talk about layer 1 down at the bottom.
The physical layer is the lowest
layer of the OSI model.
And we are talking about actual
physical components of the network.
So we're talking about things
including cables, the frequencies
that we operate are whether they
are wireless or hard wired cables.
This is what activates and
maintains and ends.
The actual physical connection is
responsible for transmission and
reception of the unstructured raw data,
as we saw the units were bits.
So it is unstructured broad data
that this slayer is dealing with,
it also handles our voltages and
data rates.
How much voltage we're using?
What are our data rates for transmission?
This is all defined in this layer.
It's going to convert the digital
analog bits into an electrical or
an optical signal to be
transported over the network.
Data encoding also happens at this layer,
if the data is encoded.
Our data link layer, which is layer 2,
the main function of
this layer is to ensure data transfer
is error free from one node to another,
because when our information is
transmitted across our network,
it will have hops from
one note to another.
This layer is also transmitting and
receiving data frames,
and this is manages the sequence
of the data frames.
This layer also sends and
accepts acknowledgement for
the frames received and sent.
The frame was you sent,
was the frame received?
If the frame was not received,
it also was responsible for re sending it.
This is handled at that later,
the data link layer.And it does manage the
frame traffic control over the network.
So the unit is frames, and this is
the layer that is responsible for ensuring
that the data is transferred from one node
to another without errors, and if there
are errors, this layer is responsible
to re send those frames of data.
Now, the network layer is responsible for
packets, because its unit is packets, so
it will handle the packet forwarding,
it will handle the routing
through different channels
from one node to another.
It acts as kind of the network
controller of the traffic cup, and
also manages our subnet traffic.
It will decide which route to take, and
it usually does that by which route would
be the fastest.And it is what divides
the outgoing messages into packets,
and then reassembles the messages,
the incoming packets to be sent
up to the higher levels of the.
The transport layer, layer 4 handles
the coordination of data between
the system and the host.
It decides how much data is going to send,
how fast it's going to send it and
where it's sending it to.
A good example of a protocol on
the transport layer would be the TCP,
which is built on top of the IP or
internet protocol, and
it is commonly referred to as TCP IP.
We did discuss that earlier.
Now the transport layer receives
messages from the session layer above.
It converts the message
into smaller units,
what it does that it's going to
pass it on to the network layer.
The session layer which is layer 5,
is what creates the session because
when two devices need to communicate,
a session has to be created, and
it's done at the session layer.And this
is involved setting up the communication.
An example would be how long should
the system wait for response?
When is it going to time out?
The session layer handles
the coordination of communication,
it handles transmission between the
applications at each end of the session.
So two computers
are talking to each other,
each one is involved in the session,
and layer 5,
the session layer is what handles
how communication is conducted.
It makes sure it happens properly so
that the session does not end
prematurely and cause data loss,
and all this is handled at
the session layer, layer 5.
Layer 6 is called the presentation layer.
This layer kind of prepares the data,
just like it kind of says it presents it,
ensures that it's set in such a way
that the receiver can understand
it.The receiving device can
interpret the data, and
this could involve languages, syntax,
it sort of plays the role of a translator.
It presents the data for
the application of the network.
One of the important things that happens
here at layer 6, is encryption and
decryption, happens at later 6,
the presentation layer.
The layer above layer six is going
to be the application layer, and
this is the top most layer
of the OSI model, and
this is the layer that most users
are going to interact with directly.
This receives information
directly from the user, and
it displays an incoming
information to the user.
And good examples of things we're going
to see at the application layer are going
to be our Web browsers, Telnet and FTP.
And these are communications that rely
on layer 7, the application layer.